in this video you are going to learn
everything that you need to know about
testing your react applications using
playright playright is an end end
testing tool that literally allows you
to test your applications exactly as a
real user would and it does died by
spinning up a browser running your
application and going and clicking on
things typing on inputs and making sure
that your application behaves in its
entirety that means front end backend
and database included exactly as you
expect and that there's no unwanted
surprises so get ready get excited
because you're going to learn a lot in
this video and by the way if you want to
learn how to build a big and complex
application with react as a total
beginner with no prior experience needed
check out project react in the
description trust me you will not regret
it let's get into
it all right so over here I have a very
simple application that's running
locally and now we're going to want to
test this application using playright
this is obviously a very simple
application we have the homepage over
here we have this H1 tag that says
homepage we have this form over here
which is a link if I hover it my cursor
turns into a pointer and I can click
this and it's going to redirect me to
the actual form URL over here/ form
where we get to see the form and we have
an input field over here where I can
type something for example test and I
can press add and we're going to add
that item directly in here and the input
is going to be cleared again this is a
very simple application and we're now
going to look at playright and how to
write test integration test for this
application so to do that we're going to
go here to the actual documentation of
playright that is going to be at
playright dode and in this video what
I'm going to do is I'm going to show you
how we could test this very simple
application but more importantly I'm
also going to walk you through my
thought process of what to test because
unfortunately a lot of tutorials don't
actually show this to you they show you
how to use the actual tool in this case
playright they show you how to write the
test and all of that but they never
teach you the core principles of testing
and why you should test something in the
first place and more specifically what
to test versus what not to test so as
you can see here playright enables
reliable endtoend testing for modern web
applications if you don't know what
endtoend testing is as opposed to unit
testing ENT to end testing means that
you're taking the entire application and
you're actually running it with the
whole front end with the whole back end
and a database and you're testing it as
a real user would so you're running the
entire application you're going and
clicking on things typing on inputs and
seeing how the application behaves as
opposed to a unit test where you're
testing a component or something in
isolation this you're testing everything
the entire application as a whole so
let's get started and let's come here
and click on the get started button this
is going to take us to the installation
page of playright and we're going to
follow these instructions over here
which honestly are pretty simple we're
going to start by installing playright
and we're going to do it by installing
it in an existing application which
probably is also going to be your case
in my case I'm using pnpm so I'm going
to come here and take this command pnpm
create playright and I'm going to come
here to my vs code this is the actual
code that's running the application and
I'm going to run it here inside of the
terminal this is now going to ask me
where I want to put my end to end test I
want to leave this in the default test
folder it's going to ask me if I want to
set up GitHub actions workflow I won't
because this is a simple application we
don't have anything on GitHub then we're
going to want to install the playr
browsers we're going to leave this to
default playrite essentially runs this
test on multiple browsers to make sure
that your application runs the same on
different browsers which is a really
cool thing and after that we run that
command we have this nice little lock
here telling us that playright is
successfully initialized in our project
and as we can see if we open up here the
Explorer page on the right we have two
new folders We have the test folder over
here and we have the test examples
folder now the test folder if I open up
example. spc. TS and actually close this
terminal this is just a simple example
test file that playright automatically
puts to get yourself started this is
cool we're going to be working within
this file to actually add the specific
test of our own application but then we
also have test examples and this has a
different file over here that is really
really useful as you can see this file
is is very big it's much bigger than the
first file and this actually has all of
the tests for a demo application that
playright built and hosted themselves
you can find it here https demo.
playright let me just come here and open
this in the browser if we open a new tab
over here we have this application and
this is a simple to-do application
created by playwright themselves so we
can add here a new to-do we can do test
for example press enter it's going to
add it we can complete it we can also
delete them and we have a fully working
application and in this this file we
have all of the tests for that
application to make sure that it works
correctly and this is really useful
because if you're just starting out real
play right and you don't really know how
to actually use it you can use this file
and you can refer to it and see how they
actually recommend that you do all of
these tests right you have a bunch of
code over here for testing different
things that most likely is going to
cover some test that you're trying to do
for your own application so this is a
really really useful file and I would
highly recommend that you spend some
time looking through this because
there's a ton of things to learn over
here that you can apply directly your
own tests now in our case we're not
going to use it we're just going to be
working in this simple file over here
and we're going to create our own test
directly so what I'm going to do
actually is I'm just going to take all
of this and delete this because we want
to start fresh and I'm still going to
leave these Imports over here because we
are going to use them so now first let's
think about our application and what we
actually want to test in our application
so here let me just run the application
again pnpm Dev just to have it running
and let's go back now to the actual
homepage and let's think what do we want
to test because our application is
really simple we don't need to have any
fancy tests so when we first start and
load the application this is the screen
that we're seeing this is the home
screen now this home screen only has a
few elements so there's not really that
much to test but still we should test
that what we're seeing on this screen is
exactly what we expect for example we
should test that we have a heading on
this page that says homepage right
because we're putting this here we want
to make sure that it actually is there
and that it has the correct text we also
have this link over here that says form
we want to test that first of all the
link is there and that when we click the
link we are successfully redirected to
SL form and here I have an error why do
I have an error there we go it's fixed
that we successfully redirected to the
actual form that's all that we want to
test for this specific page and also
maybe that the title over here is cause
and solutions just for good measure that
the title is also what we expect then we
also have the form page which has a
little bit more functionality and here
as well we want to write our own test
Suites to test the specific page we're
going to first test the same thing that
the form is actually there and also that
the input and the add button is there
and that I can type something on the
input and that when I type on the input
that whatever I typed actually ends up
over here in a list and that the input
is then cleared right we're testing the
actual functionality of our actual
application and note here that this
doesn't depend really on any individual
piece it doesn't depend on just the
front end on just the back end or just
the database but rather it depends on
all of the pieces working together
because let's say that I did have a
whole back end that would actually save
everything that I type in here we would
also be testing that we would be testing
that what ever we type in here when we
add it it goes to the back end it gives
us a correct response and we see it here
on the screen this is what we call an
integration test now of course in this
simple example we actually don't have a
back end everything is handled on the
front end but you can imagine that if we
had a back end we would be indirectly
testing that through this integration
test because the only way that this item
would show up here is if the back end is
also working if the back end is down and
it doesn't work or if there's an error
in the back end this test item over here
would not show up so doing these tests
actually test everything from front end
to back end and it holds integration
test and that's generally how you want
to approach thinking about testing and
what to test you take any screen that
you have and you look at what the user
can do what any user can do in your
application what they expect what they
can see on the screen and you just test
those cases those paths and make sure
that they're correct and also if they're
not correct there's an error you make
sure that the application your
application responds in a way that you
expect whenever there's any given error
so in our case that's the form the
functionality of the form and what we
see here and that's it we don't need to
test anything else and in the homepage
we have no interactivity we just have a
bunch of elements so we just need to
test that the elements are actually
there so let's go back to our vs code
and actually start writing some tests so
first of all I'm going to do all of this
work in this one example. spc. TS file
just to keep things simple in a real
application you might want to split this
up into multiple files each related to
different types of test that's totally
recommended but we're going to do this
in one file just to keep things very
simple and the second thing is we're
going to have two different groups of
tests because we have two different
pages we have the homepage and we have
the form page and it's generally a
better idea to group those things
together because related test usually
have a common functionality that should
go in the same group so let's go back to
vs code and actually start writing some
tests now the way that we're going to do
this is first of all I'm going to write
everything in this one file example.
speg dots just to keep things simple for
the video but ideally in a real project
you might want to have separate files
each for a different group of related
tests the second thing is even though
I'm putting all of this in one file I
will separate my tests into two groups
I'm going to have one group for the
homepage and one group for the the form
page just to keep things a little bit
more organized so that I put all of the
tests related to the homepage in one
block and all of the tests related to
the form page in another block now in
playright you can actually do that you
can create groups and you do that by
using a describe block so let's come
here and let's do test. describe and
here we can actually give it a name so
for example we can do home page like
this this is going to be all of the
tests that are related to the homepage
we're going to put them inside of this
describe block then we give this a
function over here an arrow function and
inside of here we're going to put all of
our tests that are related to the
homepage the only thing that this
describe block actually does is when you
have an actual UI and when you see the
actual test being run they're going to
be grouped under this category to make
it easier for yourself to organize I
always like to do this and again group
rated test together in a describ blog
because it just makes more sense and
then in here we can actually write our
tests so the first test that we want to
do is if I go back here to the actual
application is we want to first open up
this page over here so Local Host 3000
because we do have to navigate manually
to it and then we're going to check that
the title is correct we're going to
check that we have a heading that says
homepage and we're going to check that
we have a form link over here that says
form that's the only thing that we're
going to test in this one first test in
this describe block so we're going to
start by writing a test so we can do
test like this give it a parenthesis
then we need to give it a title and
we're going to do should have should
have correct metadata and elements right
you always want to give this a
descriptive test a descriptive title to
actually represent what the test is
actually doing right so should have the
correct metadata and elements this is
very clear as to what this test does
then as the second argument we're going
to give this an asynchronous function so
we're going to do async like this and
this is going to have one argument and
it's going to be an object and from that
object we're actually going to get the
page property like saw because we're
going to be using this page inside of
our test right so in this block over
here we created a test we gave it a
title should have correct metadata and
elements then as the second function is
the actual function that we're going to
use to test and this page over here
we're going to actually use to access
different things on that specific page
like access the title access any
elements and check that they're exactly
what we expect now to check the title
this is what we're going to do and by
the way to really see how to do any of
these things remember that you have this
demo-2 app speec over here you can
actually look at this and you can find
how they get the actual title of a
screen how they get any single element
or you can look at the actual
documentation I'm only showing you here
the simple version of doing things but
if you want to go a bit deeper and lead
a little bit more more you have all of
the resources available to be able to do
that so we're going to write await and
then expect so we are going to be
expecting something and this is coming
directly from playright at test this is
this import over here and then we're
going to do page so we're going to
expect that the page Dot and then here's
a helper function to have title and
we're going to give it here the title
that we expect which is going to be cden
Solutions like this so now we have an
actual test and we have some code inside
of it that is going to wait and then
it's going to expect the page to have a
title of cause and solutions this is a
very simple test so as long as we
actually open up this page over here and
that we have a title cause and solutions
this test is going to work but before we
can actually test that there's one more
thing that we have to do beforehand that
I left on on purpose just to make it
really obvious how important this is you
cannot actually expect the page to have
anything before even visiting the page
in the first place right in this test
there's nothing that we're telling this
test to actually go to any specific page
we're just getting the page over here
and we're expecting it to have a
specific title but what page it doesn't
know what you all to open in this case
we actually have to give it right before
we test something we have to navigate to
that specific page and we do that by
doing await and then page. go to and
this is a function and here we give it a
URL so for example HTTP sl/ Local Host
and then 3,000 like so which is the
actual endpoint that our application is
running in you have to give this to each
test because each test first of all runs
an isolation and each test needs to be
able to know what page to actually go to
so first we go to that specific page
that is going to wait until the page is
actually loaded and then it's going to
proceed to this line over here which is
going to check the title of that page
and make sure that the title is exactly
causing Solutions which is what we
expect and with that we have everything
that we need to actually run this test
and see if it passes so the way that you
run test in play right is you open up
the terminal over here I'm going to
create here a new terminal because we
have to have our application running you
can configure this to automatically run
the application it's in the
documentation in our case we're just
going to keep things simple we're just
going to write npx playright test and
then I'm just going to put this command
over here this is going to run three
tests using three different workers
because it runs the test on different
browsers that's why we have different
tests and all of these tests are run in
parallel so they're all running at the
same time but as you can see here we ran
three tests and three tests actually
have passed and we can even have a
report over here if we wanted to we can
just do this run this command this is
going to actually show show us here a
report which we can see and we can see
that we have all of these tests over
here actually running let me just copy
this and then close it and go to Chrome
because I like to film everything in
Chrome there we go this is the actual
report so homepage should have correct
metadata and elements it ran on chromium
it passed on Firefox it passed on webkit
it passed all of these different tests
passed and we're making sure that our
application at least has the correct
title over here which it does this
passes great something else that we
could do is we can run a different
command we can run the test command over
here with Das Dash and then UI this is
actually going to spin up a real browser
and it's going to be over here let's
open up this browser over here let me
just make it the correct size for you
let me maybe zoom in a little bit and
here we actually have a UI to actually
run our tests in there's this green
button over here which we can press and
that is going to run all of our tests in
all of our files and you see here we
have the homepage this is by the way the
describe block this homepage over here
that's why we're selecting it that's why
it's a different group group because of
the describe block and inside of here we
we have should have correct metadata and
elements and we have the actual test
over here page go to and then expect
title to have and it did and it passed
and we are good to go our test actually
passed this is a different way to
actually run your test if you want to
visually see how you're actually test
are being run great so now with this we
can actually continue and fill up the
rest of the missing pieces of our test
because remember we don't only want to
test that this has a correct title we
also want to test that over here we have
the actual heading that's says homepage
and that we have a form that is a link
that we can actually click to and go to
the form page so let's write those tests
so over here we're going to test first
that we have a heading that is of type
heading and has homepage in it so we're
going to do await and then expect page.
getet by roll and this is going to get
an element by its roll which we can
actually give it a roll heading like
this and we can actually give it some
properties over here for example the
name and we're going to give this here
home page like so so what this is going
to do is it's going to await and then
it's going to expect and then page. get
by roll this is going to get any element
within the page that has a ro of heading
that also has name homepage which is
actually going to be the text inside of
that heading if we have this then we can
actually validate that we actually do
have this over here and that it also has
the correct text because if this did not
have homepage we would not get this
element over here right so the only
thing that we need to do after that is
we need to call to be visible because we
need to check that this element is
actually visible on the screen so this
test is only going to pass if we have a
heading visible on the screen that is of
type heading and that also has homepage
as the text right in any other case it's
not going to pass but if it has this it
is going to pass so let's come back here
to our actual UI and let's press play
again and see if our test still passes
after these changes and it does you can
see here expect to be visible and it's
even highlighting the homepage over here
it's getting the actual heading element
and it's checking that it has the
correct name inside of it and just to be
sure that our tests are need working I
like to do this sometime just to really
make sure cuz sometimes you never know
let's come here and let's actually add
an extra e to make this an invalid name
and now let's see if our test should
fail because right now we don't have a
heading that has homepage with two Es so
this test should actually fail so if you
play this test over here we're going to
see that it takes a little longer
because when it fails it actually
retries the test and in a short while it
is going to fail and it's going to see
here that expect to be visible has
failed because we have no actual heading
with homepage N2 so now we confirmed
that our test is actually behaving as we
expect and that we can rely on it to
actually fail when it should great so
now with this we can come back we can
fix this over here let's remove the
extra e and let's just test that our
link is also visible because remember we
do have a link over here and we also
want to check that this is visible and
that it has the correct text so we're
going to do the exact same thing we're
going to do await expect and then page.
getet by by roll and we're going to give
it here link this time and we're also
going to give it name and it's going to
be form like so and we're going to await
and expect to be visible and we're going
to wait for this and expect it to be
visible let's come back here to our test
let's rerun this and we should see all
green passing test there we go our link
is also visible there we go we have
successfully completed our first actual
test testing that we should have the
correct metadata and elements on that
specific screen great now the next thing
that we want to test is that when we
click on this link over here this form
link we are redirected to the form page
because while it's cool that we did test
that this link is over here and that it
says form we did not actually test and
when we click this form it brings us to
the expected page and this is also
important to test because a user is
going to be able to click on this and if
they're not redirected to the form then
you have a bug in your application and
having a test for that is going to
prevent that bug so we're going to come
here and for that we're actually going
to make a new test because now this is a
different test we're no longer testing
that we have the correct metadata and
elements we're actually testing that
when we click the link it redirects us
to exactly where we expect so we're
going to have to make a new test so
we're going to come here and do test and
here we're going to give this as a name
should redirect to form page on click
like this click and we're going to give
this a sync as well a function and here
we're going to give the page and we're
going to do the exact same thing as we
did before and write our test now the
thing is we're also going to have to
write the same code over here to
actually navigate to that specific page
because every single test in playright
runs an isolation and you have a whole
new session every single time which
means you you have to reopen the browser
and Rego to the same page that you were
before so we have to write this again
for every single test that we want to go
to this page but doing it this way is
not the recommended way because you are
repeating yourself right you're going to
have to write this on every single test
that you want to navigate to that same
page and the truth is on the homepage in
this describe block most of our tests if
not all of them are going to need to go
to the same page so it would be better
if you had a way to run something before
every single test where we can put this
little piece of codes to to make a life
a little bit easier and not have to
repeat ourselves and the cool thing
about playright is that there actually
is we can inject a hook before every
single test and we can put this piece of
code inside of that hook and the way
that we do that is we come here we make
a little bit of space and inside of this
the Scribe block because we only want
this hook to apply to any test inside of
this block that's also another use case
for having the Scribe blocks we're going
to create a before each hook so we're
going to do test. before each and we're
going to give this here a function so
this is going to be async like this and
it's going to take the same page as we
had before and here we're just going to
put an arrow function and we're going to
take this code over here and we're going
to paste it inside of this hook over
here so now we don't need to have it
inside of this individual test and we
also don't need to have it inside of
this test over here and just to prove
this to you I'm going to comment out
this test and I'm just going to run the
test over here and run the same test and
you're going to see that it still passes
because we have this in the hook and
this runs before each individual test so
let's come back here let's press play
and we're going to see that this is
still going to work because our code is
exactly the same we've now just put this
in its own before each hook which means
that if we have a second test or any
other number of tests we don't have to
repeat ourselves every single time and
finally let's finish up and write our
test to actually check the redirect on a
specific link so we're going to do await
and then let's see await and then this
is going to be page get by roll we're
going to give this link again we're
going to get this name form and then
instead of to be visible we're going to
call a different function we're going to
call click like this which is actually
going to click on that specific input so
then we're going to have this click and
we're going to await and expect to be on
a different page on the form page so
we're going to await expect page to have
title and we're going to do here form
like this because whenever we go to the
actual form page you're going to see
that the page title actually changes to
form so we're just going to check that
we could also check the URL we could
check this in a different way if we
wanted to we're going to keep simple and
just check if we have the actual form
over here that's going to be enough so
let's come back here to our actual
Runner and let's run all of these tests
and now we're going to run two test and
we're going to see that both of them
pass so the first one still passes
that's great and the second one also
passes we're going to click and we're
actually going to see it found that
actual element the form element to click
you have this red little circle over
here and it clicked it and then it
checked the actual page and you see here
we're on form and the title is form and
this test also passed great and with
this our tests are passing and we can
guarantee and make sure that our
application is going to work exactly as
we expect now and even more importantly
if we ever make a change to any code in
the application in the future having
these tests over here is going to make
sure that if we made some code that
actually breaks something one of these
tests is going to break and we're going
to know about it and we're going to be
able to fix it that's why you want to
have test in your application to make
sure that your application works as
expected now and also in the future if
you make any changes to it and having
this in a visual Runner where you can
actually inspect every single test and
go to them and actually see the y that
was rendered at each specific step and
see what the test Runner is trying to
click through is really really useful
and it's also very useful for debugging
right whenever you're actually
developing your tests and putting them I
would recommend that you use this UI
because it is really useful so now with
this the only thing that we have to do
is actually write the tests for our form
page over here so all of these tests
over here and for this I'm going to skip
a little bit and just be faster because
I don't want to drag this video on by
just repeating the same things but I'm
going to show you what this actually
looks like for the form page so the
first thing that we want to do is we
want to create a new describe block
because now it's no longer going to be
on the homepage it's going to be on the
form page so we're going to come here
and do test. describe and here we're
going to do form page like all we're
going to give this a function again and
we're going to put some code in here
we're also going to take the same
describe block over here because we're
going to want to do the same exact
principle in here but instead of going
to Local Host 2000 we're going to put
Local Host 3000 and then form so that
every single test inside of this
describe block automatically starts on
the form page which is what we want and
then we're going to come here and write
our first test which is going to be
literally the same test as we had before
so we can even copy this directly we can
come here we can paste this it should
also have the correct made data in
elements but just for the form page so
in this case the title is going to be
form so we're going to put your form
like this The Heading is going to have
also form like this it's not going to
have homepage so so we're going to save
this and then we're going to get instead
of a link because we actually don't have
a link in here I'm going to get get by
placeholder and over here if I open up
the form component we have here this
input and we have a placeholder that
says enter item we can get this input
using its placeholder and because this
is the only one that has this
placeholder this is safe to use to
actually check that it is there that we
have an input with this specific
placeholder so we're going to do get by
placeholder this only takes one argument
so we're just going to remove the second
argument and we're going to put enter
item over here and we're going to expect
that to also be visible and finally
because we also have a button over here
that has ADD we're going to do this same
thing we're going to do await expect
page. getet by roll and then that's
going to be button and we're going to
give it here name and that's going to be
add and then to be visible like so and
now we have the same test that is
testing that every single element on the
screen is also visible if you run this
we have now our new describe block over
here so you see it's in a different
section that's one of the benefits of
using describe blocks and we have this
test that also passes all of these
elements are visible and they're exactly
what we expect great now there's two
more tests that I want to run and the
first one is going to be that initially
whenever we load this page and refresh
refresh into it we should have no items
displayed over here right that's our
initial empty state so that's going to
be one test the second test is going to
be once we actually enter an item we're
going to check that we actually have
that item over here and that this input
is clear because remember if I put test
we're going to add the item it's going
to be here and then this input is going
to be clear that is our second test now
to be able to do this we're going to
have to come in here to our form
component and we're going to have to add
a few properties to some elements to be
able to reference them in our test and
make some expections assertions on those
specific elements and we're going to be
making use of the data teste ID
attribute so the data test ID attribute
is an attribute that you can place on
any single element it is just like any
normal prop over here and you can give
it a specific test ID and then you can
use that test ID to reference that
element inside of your test and do any
single thing to it so for example we're
going to want to write our empty test
right so we're going to come here and
we're going to do test and that is going
to be should have empty items list on
start right so we're going to give this
an asynchronous function that is going
to take the page over here and this is
going to be our test that make sure and
check that whenever we're actually
loading this page initially we have an
empty items list and this should be
empty like this and for that we're going
to want to get this actual element by
its test ID which we have to add over
here so we're going to want to add it on
this unordered list tag over here
because we're going to want to get this
element and make sure that its contents
inside this map over here is empty and
that there's nothing so we're going to
going to come here and we're going to do
data test ID and we're going to give
this items list like so now we're going
to be able to come in our test and use
that test ID to get this element and
make sure and check that it's empty
inside so we're going to do const items
list equals page get by test ID as you
can see here and now we're going to give
this items list which is the test ID
that we gave it in initially in our code
over here and then the only thing that
we have to do is we have to await expect
items list.
tbmt like so we're going to call the 2bm
on the items list we could have also
done things like this we could have put
things over here right inside of this
directly this would have worked I just
showed you the different way because we
are working in JavaScript and typescript
and we can create variables if you
wanted to and sometimes it is useful if
you want to reuse this item list in
other places in this test you want to
create a separate variable for it so
that you can then just reuse it so now
if you go back here to our actual
application we should run this test and
it should work it's going to get that
element by its test ID and there we go
it got the actual element and it saw
that it was empty which is what our test
expects so it pass our test there we go
and finally the last test that we want
to do is we want to check that whenever
we enter an item and we put something in
here the item is actually added over
there and that we have an empty input
box over here now to do that we're going
to have to come in here to our form
again and we're going to have to add an
item over here to Li to again get it
access it on our test and make some
inspection some ass surch and checks to
it so we're going to do this I'm going
to do data test ID and I'm just going to
give this item like this to keep things
very simple then we're going to come
back here at to our test we're going to
create a new test test that is going to
say should add item to list that is
going to be again a function a sync
we're going to get this page like this
and then we're going to come here and
we're going to do so we're going to do
const input equals page. getet by
placeholder we're going to give this
enter item like so and then we're going
to call a function on this input we're
going to do await input. fill and this
is going to be a function that as you
can see over here will set a value on
the input field this is what you use
whenever you want to put text on a
specific input field so we're going to
do item one like so so now this input is
going to have item one as its value then
we're going to come here and we're going
to await page. getet by roll we're going
to get this button we're going to access
our button and actually click it so
we're going to come here and do name and
what happened let's come here and do
name add and then we're going to do
click like so and now this is going to
click the actual button and it's going
to trigger the actual functionality that
we have on that button with that
specific value in the input field so
then after we click the button we should
have our new item on the screen so we
have to get it and make sure that it has
item one which is what we put over here
as our text so we're going to do const
item equals page. getet by test ID and
now we're going to give this item which
again remember this is the test ID data
test ID we gave it item
and we're also going to do nth and then
we're going to put zero because over
here this is going to be a list so we're
mapping over every single item each item
is going to have the same test ID and we
can use the nth one so the nth item and
access the first item in that list so
right so that's going to be our item
over here and now that we have our item
all we have to do is just await expect
item to have text and then item one like
so and then we're also going to await
and then expect input to be empty like
so because remember every single time
that we type something that we click
this button our input should go back to
being empty so that we can type
something else so this is making that
check and then we're checking that the
item has indeed the item one text and
now with this if I come back over here
go back to our test Runner and replay
all of the tests we should see that
every single test in our application
passes and we have our should add item
to the list that's passing we have over
here we're filling the text you can see
here we have item put over here then
we're clicking the button then we have
an item we're getting it and we're
checking that it has item one and then
we're also checking that the input is
actually empty there you go you are
testing the atar application and every
single thing that the user can do and
you're making sure that your application
is behaving exactly as you expect end to
end front and backend database involved
and that there are no unwanted surprises
this is great now again remember this
was very simple right you can obviously
do a lot more than this I would highly
highly recommend that you come here and
you look at this demo app over here and
actually run the application run all of
these tests and really look at how
they're doing things they're doing a lot
more things that I did in this tutorial
video and they have a bunch of helper
functions over here that they're using
across multiple text they're using Json
they're doing all of those things and
this is a really great resource to
actually check and make sure that you're
writing your text your test properly and
that you're following all of the best
practices I would highly highly
recommend this and also I would also
highly recommend that you look and read
the documentation of playwright because
they have a lot of examples they have a
lot of apis and documentations that can
use to actually write your test doing
all of these things you've now learned
how to actually use playwright to write
your test and more importantly you've
learned how to understand what to test
and what not to test and you've seen a
real world example of how I would
approach thinking about this and writing
the actual test for a very simple
application and now you're good to go to
apply this to your own react
applications and write some really cool
test and have some really robust
applications that have not one single
bug in production let's go if you enjoy
this video and you want to see more
videos just like this this one make sure
to leave this video a big thumbs up you
can also click here to subscribe or you
can click here to watch a different
video of mine that YouTube seems to
think that you're really going to enjoy
and with that being said my name has
been darus caen this is Cen Solutions
thank you so much for watching and I
will see you in the next video chaa